Update RunInference documentation (#22250)
apache/beam: website/www/site/content/en/documentation/sdks/python-machine-learning.md

---
type: languages
title: "Apache Beam Python Machine Learning"
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Machine Learning

> You can use Apache Beam with the RunInference API to use machine learning (ML) models to do local and remote inference with batch and streaming pipelines. Starting with Apache Beam 2.40.0, PyTorch and Scikit-learn frameworks are supported. You can create multiple types of transforms using the RunInference API: the API takes multiple types of setup parameters from model handlers, and the parameter type determines the model implementation.

Author: I added a related links section and included a link to the PyDoc

## Why use the RunInference API?

> RunInference leverages existing Apache Beam concepts, such as the the `BatchElements` transform and the `Shared` class, and it allows you to build multi-model pipelines. In addition, the RunInference API allows you to find the input that determined the prediction without returning to the full input data.

Reviewer: Change : line ...find the input that
To: Built in capabilities for dealing with [keyed values](link)

Author: Updated

### BatchElements PTransform

To take advantage of the optimizations of vectorized inference that many models implement, we added the `BatchElements` transform as an intermediate step before making the prediction for the model. This transform batches elements together. The resulting batch is used to make the appropriate transformation for the particular framework of RunInference. For example, for numpy `ndarrays`, we call `numpy.stack()`,  and for torch `Tensor` elements, we call `torch.stack()`.

To customize the settings for `beam.BatchElements`, in `ModelHandler`, override the `batch_elements_kwargs` function. For example, use `min_batch_size` to set the lowest number of elements per batch or `max_batch_size` to set the highest number of elements per batch.

For more information, see the [`BatchElements` transform documentation](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.transforms.util.html#apache_beam.transforms.util.BatchElements).

### Shared helper class

> Instead of loading a model for each thread in a worker, we use the `Shared` class, which allows us to load one model that is shared across all threads of each worker in a DoFn. For more information, see the

Reviewer: change: each thread in the worker
to: each thread in the process

Author: Updated

[`Shared` class documentation](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/utils/shared.py#L20).

### Multi-model pipelines

> The RunInference API allows you to build complex multi-model pipelines with minimum effort. Multi-model pipelines are useful for A/B testing and for building out ensembles for tokenization, sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named entity extraction, language detection, coreference resolution, and more.

Reviewer: The RunInference API can be composed into multi-model pipelines

Author: Updated

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import SklearnModelHandlerNumpy
```
```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerTensor
```
```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import SklearnModelHandlerPandas
```
```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerKeyedTensor
```
### Use pre-trained models

You need to provide a path to the model weights that's accessible by the pipeline. To use pre-trained models with the RunInference API and the PyTorch framework, complete the following steps:

1. Download the pre-trained weights and host them in a location that the pipeline can access.
2. Pass the hosted path of the model to the PyTorch `model_handler` by using the following code: `state_dict_path=<path_to_weights>`.

### Use multiple inference models

You can also use the RunInference transform to add multiple inference models to your pipeline.

#### A/B Pattern

```
with pipeline as p:
   data = p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source') 
   model_a_predictions = data | RunInference(ModelHandlerA)
   model_b_predictions = data | RunInference(ModelHandlerB)
```

> #### Ensemble Pattern

Reviewer: Models in Sequence pattern .

Code should be (note 2nd line is different):

   data = p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source') 
   model_a_predictions = data | RunInference(ModelHandlerA)
   model_b_predictions = model_a_predictions | beam.Map(some_post_processing) | RunInference(ModelHandlerB)

Author: Updated

---
type: languages
title: "Apache Beam Python Machine Learning"
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Machine Learning

You can use Apache Beam with the RunInference API to use machine learning (ML) models to do local and remote inference with batch and streaming pipelines. Starting with Apache Beam 2.40.0, PyTorch and Scikit-learn frameworks are supported. You can create multiple types of transforms using the RunInference API: the API takes multiple types of setup parameters from model handlers, and the parameter type determines the model implementation.

## Why use the RunInference API?

> RunInference leverages existing Apache Beam concepts, such as the the `BatchElements` transform and the `Shared` class, and it allows you to build multi-model pipelines. In addition, the RunInference API has built in capabilities for dealing with [keyed values](#use-the-prediction-results-object).

Author: I'll remove it

### BatchElements PTransform

> To take advantage of the optimizations of vectorized inference that many models implement, we added the `BatchElements` transform as an intermediate step before making the prediction for the model. This transform batches elements together. The resulting batch is used to make the appropriate transformation for the particular framework of RunInference. For example, for numpy `ndarrays`, we call `numpy.stack()`,  and for torch `Tensor` elements, we call `torch.stack()`.

Author: What is applied? The batched elements?

To customize the settings for `beam.BatchElements`, in `ModelHandler`, override the `batch_elements_kwargs` function. For example, use `min_batch_size` to set the lowest number of elements per batch or `max_batch_size` to set the highest number of elements per batch.

For more information, see the [`BatchElements` transform documentation](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.transforms.util.html#apache_beam.transforms.util.BatchElements).

### Shared helper class

Instead of loading a model for each thread in the process, we use the `Shared` class, which allows us to load one model that is shared across all threads of each worker in a DoFn. For more information, see the
[`Shared` class documentation](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/utils/shared.py#L20).

### Multi-model pipelines

> The RunInference API can be composed into multi-model pipelines. Multi-model pipelines are useful for A/B testing and for building out ensembles for tokenization, sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named entity extraction, language detection, coreference resolution, and more.

Author: I'm agnostic about whether to have specifics or a generalization. If we make it more generic, what would you suggest?

### Prediction results

When doing a prediction in Apache Beam, the output `PCollection` includes both the keys of the input examples and the inferences. Including both these items in the output allows you to find the input that determined the predictions without returning the full input data.

For more information, see the [`PredictionResult` documentation](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/ml/inference/base.py#L65). 

## Modify a pipeline to use an ML model

> To use the RunInference transform, you add a single line of code in your pipeline:

Author: I'll remove that.

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
 
with pipeline as p:

>    predictions = ( p | beam.ReadFromSource('a_source')   

Author: Should we try to style model_handler as a variable, for example <model_handler>?

>    predictions = ( p | beam.ReadFromSource('a_source')   

Author: I added a line under the first place this appears saying "Where model_handler is the model handler setup code." I can add this in every place we use a placeholder, but I don't *think* it's necessary.

I also added brackets around all the model handler placeholders in the code and made the styling consistent.

>    predictions = ( p | beam.ReadFromSource('a_source')   

Author: I decided to add the line under all the cases; I think there are only three.

>     | RunInference(configuration)))

Author: Updated

```

To import models, you need to wrap them around a `ModelHandler object`. Add one or more of the following lines of code, depending on the framework and type of data structure that holds the data:

> ```

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to reword it to something like this, and keep the (refactored) code block?

To import models, you need to wrap them around a `ModelHandler` object. The `ModelHandler` you import will depend on the framework and type of data structure that contains the inputs. See the following examples on which ones you may want to import. 
```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.sklearn_inference import SklearnModelHandlerNumpy
from apache_beam.ml.inference.sklearn_inference import SklearnModelHandlerPandas
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerTensor
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerKeyedTensor
```

> ```

Author: I made some updates. Take a look and let me know if we need more changes.

> ```

Reviewer 2: Thanks. By the way, the imports I originally wrote had some typos, so I fixed them
```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.sklearn_inference import SklearnModelHandlerNumpy
from apache_beam.ml.inference.sklearn_inference import SklearnModelHandlerPandas
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerTensor
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerKeyedTensor
```

> ```

Author: Updated to fix the typos

from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import SklearnModelHandlerNumpy
```
```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerTensor
```
```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import SklearnModelHandlerPandas
```
```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerKeyedTensor
```
### Use pre-trained models

> You need to provide a path to the model weights that's accessible by the pipeline. To use pre-trained models with the RunInference API and the PyTorch framework, complete the following steps:

Author: This has been updated to include a PyTorch section and a Scikit-learn section.

To work with current RunInference implementation, override the `forward()` function and convert the standard Hugging Face forward output into the appropriate format of `List[Dict[str, torch.Tensor]]`. For more information, see an [example with the batching flag added](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/pytorch_language_modeling.py#L49).

### Unable to batch tensor elements

RunInference uses dynamic batching. However, the RunInference API cannot batch tensor elements of different sizes, because `torch.stack()` expects tensors of the same length. If you provide images of different sizes or word embeddings of different lengths, errors might occur.

To avoid this issue:

1. Either use elements that have the same size, or resize image inputs and word embeddings to make them 

> the same size. Depending on the language model and encoding technique, this option might not be available. 

Author: What does CV stand for?

> the same size. Depending on the language model and encoding technique, this option might not be available. 

Reviewer 2: computer vision

   `model_uri=<path_to_pickled_file>` and `model_file_type: <ModelFileType>`, where you can specify
   `ModelFileType.PICKLE` or `ModelFileType.JOBLIB`, depending on how the model was serialized.

### Use multiple models

You can also use the RunInference transform to add multiple inference models to your pipeline.

#### A/B Pattern

```
with pipeline as p:
   data = p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source') 
   model_a_predictions = data | RunInference(<model_handler_A>)
   model_b_predictions = data | RunInference(<model_handler_B>)
```

#### Ensemble Pattern

```
with pipeline as p:
   data = p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source') 
   model_a_predictions = data | RunInference(<model_handler_A>)
   model_b_predictions = model_a_predictions | beam.Map(some_post_processing) | RunInference(<model_handler_B>)
```

### Use a keyed ModelHandler

If a key is attached to the examples, wrap the `KeyedModelHandler` around the `ModelHandler` object:

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import KeyedModelHandler
 
keyed_model_handler = KeyedModelHandler(PytorchModelHandlerTensor(...))
 
with pipeline as p:
   data = p | beam.Create([

>       ('img1', np.array[[1,2,3],[4,5,6],...]),
>       ('img2', np.array[[1,2,3],[4,5,6],...]),
>       ('img3', np.array[[1,2,3],[4,5,6],...]),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      ('img1', torch.tensor([[1,2,3],[4,5,6],...])),
      ('img2', torch.tensor([[1,2,3],[4,5,6],...])),
      ('img3', torch.tensor([[1,2,3],[4,5,6],...])),
```

   ])

>    predictions = data | RunInference(<keyed_model_handler>)

Reviewer 2: technically, we've already defined the `keyed_model_handler` variable above for this snippet, so should it be wrapped with <>?

Author: Good point. I'll fix that.

The RunInference API currently expects outputs to be an `Iterable[Any]`. Example return types are `Iterable[Tensor]` or `Iterable[Dict[str, Tensor]]`. When RunInference zips the inputs with the predictions, the predictions iterate over the dictionary keys instead of the batch elements. The result is that the key name is preserved but the prediction tensors are discarded. For more information, see the [Pytorch RunInference PredictionResult is a Dict](https://github.com/apache/beam/issues/22240) issue in the Apache Beam GitHub project.

To work with the current RunInference implementation, you can create a wrapper class that overrides the `model(input)` call. In PyTorch, for example, your wrapper would override the `forward()` function and return an output with the appropriate format of `List[Dict[str, torch.Tensor]]`. For more information, see our [HuggingFace language modeling example](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/pytorch_language_modeling.py#L49).

### Unable to batch tensor elements

> RunInference uses dynamic batching. However, the RunInference API cannot batch tensor elements of different sizes, so samples passed to teh RunInferene transform must be the same dimension or length. If you provide images of different sizes or word embeddings of different lengths, errors might occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RunInference uses dynamic batching. However, the RunInference API cannot batch tensor elements of different sizes, so samples passed to the RunInference transform must be the same dimension or length. If you provide images of different sizes or word embeddings of different lengths, the following error may occur:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```
  File "/beam/sdks/python/apache_beam/ml/inference/pytorch_inference.py", line 232, in run_inference
    batched_tensors = torch.stack(key_to_tensor_list[key])
RuntimeError: stack expects each tensor to be equal size, but got [12] at entry 0 and [10] at entry 1 [while running 'PyTorchRunInference/ParDo(_RunInferenceDoFn)']
```

For more information, see the [`BatchElements` transform documentation](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.transforms.util.html#apache_beam.transforms.util.BatchElements).

### Shared helper class

Instead of loading a model for each thread in the process, we use the `Shared` class, which allows us to load one model that is shared across all threads of each worker in a DoFn. For more information, see the
[`Shared` class documentation](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/utils/shared.py#L20).

### Multi-model pipelines

The RunInference API can be composed into multi-model pipelines. Multi-model pipelines can be useful for A/B testing or for building out ensembles that are comprised of models that perform tokenization, sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named entity extraction, language detection, coreference resolution, and more.

## Modify a pipeline to use an ML model

To use the RunInference transform, add the following code to your pipeline:

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference

>  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: @rszper there are some whitespaces that fail our formatting tests

with pipeline as p:

>    predictions = ( p |  'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source')   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   predictions = ( p |  'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source')
```

                     | 'RunInference' >> RunInference(<model_handler>)
```
Where `model_handler` is the model handler setup code.

To import models, you need to wrap them around a `ModelHandler` object. Which `ModelHandler` you import depends on the framework and type of data structure that contains the inputs. The following examples show some ModelHandlers that you might want to import.

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.sklearn_inference import SklearnModelHandlerNumpy
from apache_beam.ml.inference.sklearn_inference import SklearnModelHandlerPandas
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerTensor
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerKeyedTensor
```
### Use pre-trained models

The section provides requirements for using pre-trained models with PyTorch and Scikit-learn

#### PyTorch

You need to provide a path to a file that contains the model saved weights. This path must be accessible by the pipeline. To use pre-trained models with the RunInference API and the PyTorch framework, complete the following steps:

1. Download the pre-trained weights and host them in a location that the pipeline can access.

> 2. Pass the path of the model to the PyTorch `model_handler` by using the following code: `state_dict_path=<path_to_weights>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Pass the path of the model weights to the PyTorch `ModelHandler` by using the following code: `state_dict_path=<path_to_weights>`.
```

Reviewer 3: I suggest model weights here because we save the state_dict of the Pytorch model, which is the weights of the model.

#### Scikit-learn

You need to provide a path to a file that contains the pickled Scikit-learn model. This path must be accessible by the pipeline. To use pre-trained models with the RunInference API and the Scikit-learn framework, complete the following steps:

1. Download the pickled model class and host it in a location that the pipeline can access.

> 2. Pass the path of the model to the Sklearn `model_handler` by using the following code:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Pass the path of the model to the Sklearn `ModelHandler` by using the following code:
```

   `model_uri=<path_to_pickled_file>` and `model_file_type: <ModelFileType>`, where you can specify
   `ModelFileType.PICKLE` or `ModelFileType.JOBLIB`, depending on how the model was serialized.

### Use multiple models

You can also use the RunInference transform to add multiple inference models to your pipeline.

#### A/B Pattern

```
with pipeline as p:

>    data = p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source') 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   data = p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source')
```

   model_a_predictions = data | RunInference(<model_handler_A>)
   model_b_predictions = data | RunInference(<model_handler_B>)
```

Where `model_handler_A` and `model_handler_B` are the model handler setup code.

#### Ensemble Pattern

```
with pipeline as p:

>    data = p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source') 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   data = p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source')
```

   model_a_predictions = data | RunInference(<model_handler_A>)
   model_b_predictions = model_a_predictions | beam.Map(some_post_processing) | RunInference(<model_handler_B>)
```

Where `model_handler_A` and `model_handler_B` are the model handler setup code.

### Use a keyed ModelHandler

If a key is attached to the examples, wrap the `KeyedModelHandler` around the `ModelHandler` object:

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import KeyedModelHandler

>  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

keyed_model_handler = KeyedModelHandler(PytorchModelHandlerTensor(...))

>  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

      ('img3', torch.tensor([[1,2,3],[4,5,6],...])),
   ])
   predictions = data | RunInference(KeyedModelHandler)
```

### Use the PredictionResults object

When doing a prediction in Apache Beam, the output `PCollection` includes both the keys of the input examples and the inferences. Including both these items in the output allows you to find the input that determined the predictions.

The `PredictionResult` is a `NamedTuple` object that contains both the input and the inferences, named  `example` and  `inference`, respectively. When keys are passed with the input data to the RunInference transform, the output `PCollection` returns a `Tuple[str, PredictionResult]`, which is the key and the `PredictionResult` object. Your pipeline interacts with a `PredictionResult` object in steps after the RunInference transform.

```
class PostProcessor(beam.DoFn):
    def process(self, element: Tuple[str, PredictionResult]):
       key, prediction_result = element
       inputs = prediction_result.example
       predictions = prediction_result.inference

       # Post-processing logic
       result = ...

       yield (key, result)

with pipeline as p:
    output = (

>         p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source') 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        p | 'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source')
```

                | 'PyTorchRunInference' >> RunInference(<keyed_model_handler>)
                | 'ProcessOutput' >> beam.ParDo(PostProcessor()))
```

If you need to use this object explicitly, include the following line in your pipeline to import the object:

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import PredictionResult
```

> For more information, see the [`PredictionResult` documentation](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/ml/inference/base.py#L65). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [`PredictionResult` documentation](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/ml/inference/base.py#L65).
```

The RunInference API currently expects outputs to be an `Iterable[Any]`. Example return types are `Iterable[Tensor]` or `Iterable[Dict[str, Tensor]]`. When RunInference zips the inputs with the predictions, the predictions iterate over the dictionary keys instead of the batch elements. The result is that the key name is preserved but the prediction tensors are discarded. For more information, see the [Pytorch RunInference PredictionResult is a Dict](https://github.com/apache/beam/issues/22240) issue in the Apache Beam GitHub project.

To work with the current RunInference implementation, you can create a wrapper class that overrides the `model(input)` call. In PyTorch, for example, your wrapper would override the `forward()` function and return an output with the appropriate format of `List[Dict[str, torch.Tensor]]`. For more information, see our [HuggingFace language modeling example](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/pytorch_language_modeling.py#L49).

### Unable to batch tensor elements

> RunInference uses dynamic batching. However, the RunInference API cannot batch tensor elements of different sizes, because `torch.stack()` expects tensors of the same length. If you provide images of different sizes or word embeddings of different lengths, errors might occur.

Reviewer 3: @ryanthompson591 is it the same case for `numpy` as well? if yes, we can generalize the statement saying something like  all the samples passed to the RunInference transform must be of the same dimension/length.

Reviewer 4: Yes, that is a good generalization for sklearn as well.  Going forward it may not always going to be the case, TF might have some leeway with the way it sets up protos, but it is a good troubleshooting thing to think about in general.

Author: Updated

### BatchElements PTransform

To take advantage of the optimizations of vectorized inference that many models implement, we added the `BatchElements` transform as an intermediate step before making the prediction for the model. This transform batches elements together. The batched elements are then applied with a transformation for the particular framework of RunInference. For example, for numpy `ndarrays`, we call `numpy.stack()`,  and for torch `Tensor` elements, we call `torch.stack()`.

To customize the settings for `beam.BatchElements`, in `ModelHandler`, override the `batch_elements_kwargs` function. For example, use `min_batch_size` to set the lowest number of elements per batch or `max_batch_size` to set the highest number of elements per batch.

For more information, see the [`BatchElements` transform documentation](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.transforms.util.html#apache_beam.transforms.util.BatchElements).

### Shared helper class

> Instead of loading a model for each thread in the process, we use the `Shared` class, which allows us to load one model that is shared across all threads of each worker in a DoFn. For more information, see the

Reviewer 5: Using the `Shared` class within RunInference implementation allows us to load the model  only once per process and share it with all DoFn instances created in that process. This reduces the memory consumption and model loading time.

Author: Updated

[`Shared` class documentation](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/utils/shared.py#L20).

### Multi-model pipelines

The RunInference API can be composed into multi-model pipelines. Multi-model pipelines can be useful for A/B testing or for building out ensembles that are comprised of models that perform tokenization, sentence segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, named entity extraction, language detection, coreference resolution, and more.

## Modify a pipeline to use an ML model

To use the RunInference transform, add the following code to your pipeline:

```
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference
with pipeline as p:
   predictions = ( p |  'Read' >> beam.ReadFromSource('a_source')
                     | 'RunInference' >> RunInference(<model_handler>)
```
Where `model_handler` is the model handler setup code.

> To import models, you need to wrap them around a `ModelHandler` object. Which `ModelHandler` you import depends on the framework and type of data structure that contains the inputs. The following examples show some ModelHandlers that you might want to import.

Reviewer 5: > To import models, you need to wrap them around a `ModelHandler` object

Consider instead: 
`To import models, you need to configure a `ModelHandler` object that will wrap the underlying model`

Author: Updated

batched_tensors = torch.stack(key_to_tensor_list[key])
RuntimeError: stack expects each tensor to be equal size, but got [12] at entry 0 and [10] at entry 1 [while running 'PyTorchRunInference/ParDo(_RunInferenceDoFn)']
`

To avoid this issue, either use elements of the same size, or disable batching.

**Option 1: Use elements of the same size**

Use elements of the same size or resize the inputs. For computer vision applications, resize image inputs so that they have the same dimensions. For natural language processing (NLP) applications that have text of varying length, resize the text or word embeddings to make them the same length. When working with texts of varying length, resizing might not be possible. In this scenario, you could disable batching (see option 2).

**Option 2: Disable batching**

Disable batching by overriding the `batch_elements_kwargs` function in your ModelHandler and setting the maximum batch size (`max_batch_size`) to one: `max_batch_size=1`. For more information, see
[BatchElements PTransforms](/documentation/sdks/python-machine-learning/#batchelements-ptransform).

> 

Reviewer 5: How about we link apache_beam/examples/inference/pytorch_language_modeling.py as an example that does this?

Author: Added

If you run into problems with your pipeline or job, this section lists issues that you might encounter and provides suggestions for how to fix them.

### Incorrect inferences in the PredictionResult object

> In some cases, the `PredictionResults` output might not include the correct predictions in the `inferences` field. This issue occurs when you use a model whose inferences return a dictionary that maps keys to predictions and that includes additional metadata. An example return type is `Dict[str, Tensor]`.

Reviewer 2: The intention here is to say that there could be a mapping
{'key1': predictions,
 'key2': metadata2,
 'key3': metadata3,
}

```suggestion
In some cases, the `PredictionResults` output might not include the correct predictions in the `inferences` field. This issue occurs when you use a model whose inferences return a dictionary that maps keys to predictions and other metadata. An example return type is `Dict[str, Tensor]`.
```

To work with current RunInference implementation, override the `forward()` function and convert the standard Hugging Face forward output into the appropriate format of `List[Dict[str, torch.Tensor]]`. For more information, see our [HuggingFace language modeling example](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/pytorch_language_modeling.py#L49).

### Unable to batch tensor elements

RunInference uses dynamic batching. However, the RunInference API cannot batch tensor elements of different sizes, because `torch.stack()` expects tensors of the same length. If you provide images of different sizes or word embeddings of different lengths, errors might occur.

To avoid this issue, use one of the following solutions:

> 1. Use elements of the same size or resize the inputs. For computer vision applications, resize image inputs so that they have the same dimensions. For natural language processing (NLP) applications that have text of varying length, resize the text or word embeddings to make them the same length. When working with texts of varying length, resizing might not be possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use elements of the same size or resize the inputs. For computer vision applications, resize image inputs so that they have the same dimensions. For natural language processing (NLP) applications that have text of varying length, resize the text or word embeddings to make them the same length. When working with texts of varying length, resizing might not be possible. If this is the case, consider solution 2.
```

The RunInference API currently expects outputs to be an `Iterable[Any]`. Example return types are `Iterable[Tensor]` or `Iterable[Dict[str, Tensor]]`. When RunInference zips the inputs with the predictions, the predictions iterate over the dictionary keys instead of the batch elements. The result is that the key name is preserved but the prediction tensors are discarded. For more information, see the [Pytorch RunInference PredictionResult is a Dict](https://github.com/apache/beam/issues/22240) issue in the Apache Beam GitHub project.

> To work with the current RunInference implementation, you can create a wrapper class that overrides the `model(input)` call. In PyTorch, for example, your wrapper would override the `forward()` function and return an output with the appropriate format of `List[Dict[str, torch.Tensor]]`. For more information, see our [HuggingFace language modeling example](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/pytorch_language_modeling.py#L49) and our [Bert language modeling example](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/pytorch_language_modeling.py).

Reviewer 5: these are the same links, looks like not the change we intended to make?

Reviewer 5: my last comment referred to disable batching section

Author: Oops. This should be fixed now.
